

玩家索引 
    getplayerproperty/changeplayerproperty       获取/设置
    

物体相关
    getentityproperty/changeentityproperty       获取/设置
    有关联的
        animationID     当前的动画ID-当前动画的ID。它是一个整数值，请参见“ openborconstant”。
            ANI_FREESPECIAL102
            ANI_FOLLOW1
        animation
        animvalid

    
    
    spawn                   生成物体



用于释放特效 特效名字 在mods里面预设的
hitflash   Qflash2



系统 获取/设置
    openborvariant

常量
    openborconstant     通过名称获取常量或系统值


存取相关
    全局变量
        根据索引存取
            getindexedvar(int index)            从OpenBOR版本3.902开始弃用了
            setindexedvar(int index, value)

        根据字符串存取
            getglobalvar(varname)   
            setglobalvar(varname, value)
    本地变量
        getlocalvar(varname)
        setlocalvar(varname, value)

    清空变量
        clearglobalvar()    清空全局变量
        clearlocalvar()     清空局部变量

    根据脚本索引
        getscriptvar(int index)                 从OpenBOR版本3.902开始弃用了
        setscriptvar(int index, value)

    根据物体
        getentityvar(entity, int index)
        setentityvar(entity, int index, value)

## 案例
```c
void main()
{
// 用全局索引存储字符hello      全局可以访问
// 打印到 (10, 100)
setindexedvar(99, "hello");
drawstring(10, 100, 2, getindexedvar(99));

// 获取玩家1的实体 并把玩家1最近的敌人存储到索引2  只能物体使用
// 打印到(10, 120)
void p1 = getplayerproperty(0, "ent");
setentityvar(p1, 2, findtarget(p1));
drawstring(10, 120, 2, getentityvar(p1, 2));

// 把字符串存储在脚本中  只能在脚本中使用
// 打印到 (10, 140)
setscriptvar(3, "This is update.c");
drawstring(10, 140, 2, getscriptvar(3));
}
```





## 玩家
    根据索引
        获取玩家属性 玩家索引 属性字符
            getplayerproperty
        设置玩家属性 玩家索引 属性字符 植
            changeplayerproperty
        属性字符
            "colourmap" - This is the map for the player
            "combokey" - This is the key pressed to make a combo, you need a supplementar param to use it: "combostep". Example: getplayerproperty(0, "combokey", getplayerproperty(0, "combostep"))
            "combostep" - This is the step (integer number) from 0 to x that define the step move in a combo
            "credits" - Credits left
            "disablekeys" - This is a flag. these are the keys that you can disable from input.
            "ent" - 获取物体
            "entity" - 获取物体
            "hasplayed" - This variable assumes 1 s the player has played at least once. useful for the custom HUD
            "hmapl" - This is the start index of hidden map. You can retrieve this when you joining too!
            "hmapu" - This is the end index of hidden map. You can retrieve this when you joining too!
            "inputtime" - The time when you press a key to make a combo, you need a supplementar param to use it: "combostep". Example: getplayerproperty(0, "inputtime", getplayerproperty(0, "combostep"))
            "joining" - This is 1 if tha player joining to play. Useful for custom HUD
            "keys" - This is a flag. These are the total keys pressed.
            "lives" - Lives left
            "mapcount" - Map number of the player. You can retrieve this when you joining too!
            "name" - 玩家名字
            "newkeys" - This is a flag. These are the new keys pressed in current frame
            "numweapons" - It retrieves the number of weapon of the player. You can retrieve this when you joining too!
            "playkeys" - This is a flag. These are the keys to move the character in the level
            "releasekeys" - This is a flag. These are the keys released in the current frame
            "score" - Score is ...hmm, score. From 0 to 999999999
            "spawnhealth" - Initial health of player
            "spawnmp" - Initial MP of player
            "weapnum" - This is the weapon index
            "weapon" - This is a write only value. This is the weapon index. you need a supplementar param to use it: anim_flag. Example: changeplayerproperty(0, "weapon", 2, 0) to change to weapon 2 and anim_flag 0
            anim_flag: if set to 1 for scripted midair weapon changing, default 0